---
layout: project
title: "Credit Risk Analysis"
date: 2020-11-10
tags: [EDA, data science, messy data]
header:
  image: "/images/credit1.jpg"
excerpt: "EDA, Data Science, Messy Data"
mathjax: "true"
---
[Follow this for Github link of the project](https://github.com/sharmaabhijith/Credit_EDA-Analysis.git)

The loan providing companies find it hard to give loans to the people due to their insufficient or non-existent credit history. Because of that, some consumers use it as their advantage by becoming a defaulter. We have to use EDA to analyse the patterns present in the data. 
 
When the company receives a loan application, the company has to decide for loan approval based on the applicant’s profile. Two types of risks are associated with the bank’s decision:
- If the applicant is likely to repay the loan, then not approving the loan results in a loss of business to the company
- If the applicant is not likely to repay the loan, i.e. he/she is likely to default, then approving the loan may lead to a financial loss for the company.

When a client applies for a loan, there are four types of decisions that could be taken by the client/company):
- Approved: The Company has approved loan Application
- Cancelled: The client cancelled the application sometime during approval. Either the client changed her/his mind about the loan or in some cases due to a higher risk of the client he received worse pricing which he did not want.
- Refused: The company had rejected the loan (because the client does not meet their requirements etc.).
- Unused offer:  Loan has been cancelled by the client but on different stages of the process.
 
## Business Objectives

This case study aims to identify patterns which indicate if a client has difficulty paying their instalments which may be used for taking actions such as denying the loan, reducing the amount of loan, lending (to risky applicants) at a higher interest rate, etc. This will ensure that the consumers capable of repaying the loan are not rejected. Identification of such applicants using EDA is the aim of this case study.

In other words, the company wants to understand the driving factors (or driver variables) behind loan default, i.e. the variables which are strong indicators of default.  The company can utilise this knowledge for its portfolio and risk assessment.

